---
title: 'WebAssembly'
author: 'Kasun Madushan'
category: 'Tech'
publishedAt: '30-04-2024'
---
# WebAssembly (Wasm)

WebAssembly is a modern binary instruction format providing a new way to run code written in multiple languages on the web at near-native speed. It is a key technology for performance-critical web applications.

## Key Features

- **Efficiency and Speed**: Wasm is designed to be fast to load and execute, offering performance close to native applications.
- **Language Agnostic**: Supports languages like C, C++, Rust, and more. These languages can be compiled into Wasm and run on the web.
- **Safe Execution**: Runs in a sandboxed execution environment, ensuring that the code does not compromise the security of the web page or the underlying system.
- **Integration with JavaScript**: While Wasm modules can execute independently, they can interoperate with JavaScript, allowing for complex applications that leverage both technologies effectively.

## Use Cases

- **Games**: Enables high-performance games to be run in browsers without plugins.
- **Video and Image Processing**: Ideal for applications requiring intensive processing tasks, Wasm can handle these efficiently.
- **Portable Codebases**: Facilitates the reuse of existing codebases on the web, which can dramatically speed up development and ensure performance stability.

## Advantages Over JavaScript

- **Performance**: Typically faster due to its lower-level capabilities and optimized execution.
- **Predictability**: Runs with predictable performance, which is crucial for real-time applications.
- **Memory Management**: Allows manual memory management, which is beneficial for performance-tuning specific applications.

WebAssembly is continuing to evolve, with ongoing improvements and new capabilities regularly introduced, making it an increasingly vital part of the web technology landscape.
